README.md, before:

# Industrial IoT Schemas

Exosite's vertical industrial IoT schemas are documented here. 


## Schemas
| Schema | Released Version | Working Drafts |
| :----- | :--------------: | :------------: |
| ExoSense™️ Channel and Signal I/O | [v3.0 ](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/master/channel-signal_io_schema.md) | [v3.1 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/channel-signal_io_schema.md) |
| ExoSense™️ Channel and Signal Data Types| [v3.0](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/master/data-types.md) | [v3.1 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/data-types.md) |
| ExoSense™️ Insight Integration | - | [v1.0 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/insight_transform_integration_schema.md) |
| Device Management OTA Package Update | - | [v1.0 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/ota_update_schema.md) |



## Versionon / Contributing 
This repository is managed by Exosite.  [How contributions are managed are detailed here](contributing.md).

Commit message:

update readme and contributions information

README.md, after:

# ExoSense™️ Industrial IoT Schemas
This repository provides specification documents for the ExoSense™️ application and related technologies as a part of Exosite's Industrial IoT product offering.  These documents are meant as as reference details for those groups of people including OEMs building connected devices / gateways to work with ExoSense, OEMs and integrators creating custom insight transforms / rules / integrations, and for Exosite's developers building and improving ExoSense.  These specifications are not developer guides but schemas and reference material that allow for standardization. For those looking for developer guide information, this can be found on Exosite's [ExoSense documentation site](https://exosense.readme.io/). 


## Schemas
| Schema | Released Version | Working Drafts |
| :----- | :--------------: | :------------: |
| ExoSense™️ Channel and Signal I/O | [v3.0 ](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/master/channel-signal_io_schema.md) | [v3.1 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/channel-signal_io_schema.md) |
| ExoSense™️ Channel and Signal Data Types| [v3.0](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/master/data-types.md) | [v3.1 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/data-types.md) |
| ExoSense™️ Insight Integration | - | [v1.0 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/insight_transform_integration_schema.md) |
| Device Management OTA Package Update | - | [v1.0 draft](https://github.com/exosite/industrial_iot_schema/blob/working_draft/ota_update_schema.md) |



## Versionon / Contributing 
This repository is managed by Exosite.  [How contributions are managed are detailed here](contributing.md).
